Readme.md, before:

# Bulgur Cloud - simple and delicious cloud storage and sharing



[![tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/tests?label=tests)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/actions/workflows/coverage.yml) [![Test coverage report](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud)](https://codecov.io/gh/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud) [![lint checks](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/lint%20checks?label=lint)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/actions/workflows/lint.yml) ![Audit status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/Security%20audit?label=audit) [![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud?include_prereleases)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/releases) [![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud)](https://hub.docker.com/r/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud) [![AGPL-3.0 license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)

Bulgur cloud is a cloud storage and sharing option, designed to be easy to self
host. It depends on no databases or services, and uses little resources.

![Login scren](https://bgenc.net/img/2022-03-29-00-17-38.png)

## Demo

A read-only demo instance is now available at [bulgur-cloud.bgenc.net](https://bulgur-cloud.bgenc.net).

Enter the username `test` and password `test` to log in. This is set to be read only, so you will get an error if you try to upload, rename, or delete anything.

## Getting Started

See the demo above, and [my blog post](https://bgenc.net/bulgur-cloud-intro/) to get a sense of what Bulgur Cloud looks like.

If you like it, Bulgur Cloud has an experimental 0.1 release out now! Check the
[releases page](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/releases) to download
it as a self-contained binary which includes everything needed, or use the
[seriousbug/bulgur-cloud](https://hub.docker.com/r/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud)
docker image. Releases are available for Linux on x86_64, aarch64, armv7, and
arm; and for Windows on x86_64 only.

The releases are self contained, you don't need to set up a database or install
anything extra. The user interface is built into the released binary, so no
extra setup is needed.

### Binary

Download the binary that matches your system from the [releases page](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/releases), and extract it from the archive.
You can run this binary as a CLI command to add and remove users, or run it without commands to launch the server.

```bash
# Add users for the service, repeat for however many users you'd like to add
./bulgur-cloud user add --username name-for-user
# Start the service
./bulgur-cloud
```

The server will launch on port 8000 and will accept connections from all
addresses. This will be made configurable soon.

### Docker

Pull the [seriousbug/bulgur-cloud](https://hub.docker.com/r/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud)
image from DockerHub.

```bash
# Pull the docker image
docker pull seriousbug/bulgur-cloud:latest
# Create folders to store the data
mkdir -p users storage
# Add users for the service, repeat for however many users you'd like to add
docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v "$(pwd)/users":/users:rw -v "$(pwd)/storage":/storage:rw seriousbug/bulgur-cloud:latest user add --username name-for-user
# Start the service
docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v "$(pwd)/users":/users:rw -v "$(pwd)/storage":/storage:rw seriousbug/bulgur-cloud:latest
```

## Development

If you'd like to help with development, use Visual Studio Code to open the
project folder. You must have a working rust and nodejs setup. There are tasks
set up to build and run the backend and frontend. The backend requires a bit of
setup as you need to create a user for testing. There is no documentation for
this right now, but let me know if you are interested and I'll help with the
setup.

### Tests

To run tests, please run them single-threaded.

```
cargo test -- --test-threads=1
```

Tests create and use a test folder, and because they run in the same process
this can't be parallelized. We'll make the file access parts modularized
eventually so this won't be required.

To get test coverage, install and use [tarpaulin](https://github.com/xd009642/tarpaulin):

```
cargo tarpaulin -- --test-threads=1
```

Commit message:

Add UI tests (#62)
* Add UI tests

* fix broken test

Readme.md, after:

# Bulgur Cloud - simple and delicious cloud storage and sharing

[![tests](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/tests?label=tests)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/actions/workflows/coverage.yml) [![Test coverage report](https://img.shields.io/codecov/c/github/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud)](https://codecov.io/gh/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud) [![lint checks](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/lint%20checks?label=lint)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/actions/workflows/lint.yml) ![Audit status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/Security%20audit?label=audit) [![Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud?include_prereleases)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/releases) [![Docker Image Size](https://img.shields.io/docker/image-size/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud)](https://hub.docker.com/r/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud) [![AGPL-3.0 license](https://img.shields.io/github/license/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud)](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/blob/main/LICENSE.txt)

Bulgur cloud is a cloud storage and sharing option, designed to be easy to self
host. It depends on no databases or services, and uses little resources.

![Login scren](https://bgenc.net/img/2022-03-29-00-17-38.png)

## Demo

A read-only demo instance is now available at [bulgur-cloud.bgenc.net](https://bulgur-cloud.bgenc.net).

Enter the username `test` and password `test` to log in. This is set to be read only, so you will get an error if you try to upload, rename, or delete anything.

## Getting Started

See the demo above, and [my blog post](https://bgenc.net/bulgur-cloud-intro/) to get a sense of what Bulgur Cloud looks like.

If you like it, Bulgur Cloud has an experimental 0.1 release out now! Check the
[releases page](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/releases) to download
it as a self-contained binary which includes everything needed, or use the
[seriousbug/bulgur-cloud](https://hub.docker.com/r/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud)
docker image. Releases are available for Linux on x86_64, aarch64, armv7, and
arm; and for Windows on x86_64 only.

The releases are self contained, you don't need to set up a database or install
anything extra. The user interface is built into the released binary, so no
extra setup is needed.

### Binary

Download the binary that matches your system from the [releases page](https://github.com/SeriousBug/bulgur-cloud/releases), and extract it from the archive.
You can run this binary as a CLI command to add and remove users, or run it without commands to launch the server.

```bash
# Add users for the service, repeat for however many users you'd like to add
./bulgur-cloud user add --username name-for-user
# Start the service
./bulgur-cloud
```

The server will launch on port 8000 and will accept connections from all
addresses. This will be made configurable soon.

### Docker

Pull the [seriousbug/bulgur-cloud](https://hub.docker.com/r/seriousbug/bulgur-cloud)
image from DockerHub.

```bash
# Pull the docker image
docker pull seriousbug/bulgur-cloud:latest
# Create folders to store the data
mkdir -p users storage
# Add users for the service, repeat for however many users you'd like to add
docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v "$(pwd)/users":/users:rw -v "$(pwd)/storage":/storage:rw seriousbug/bulgur-cloud:latest user add --username name-for-user
# Start the service
docker run --rm -it -p 8000:8000 -v "$(pwd)/users":/users:rw -v "$(pwd)/storage":/storage:rw seriousbug/bulgur-cloud:latest
```

## Development

If you'd like to help with development, use Visual Studio Code to open the
project folder. You must have a working rust and nodejs setup. There are tasks
set up to build and run the backend and frontend. The backend requires a bit of
setup as you need to create a user for testing. There is no documentation for
this right now, but let me know if you are interested and I'll help with the
setup.

### Tests

#### Backend

To run tests, please run them single-threaded.

```sh
cargo test -- --test-threads=1
```

Tests create and use a test folder, and because they run in the same process
this can't be parallelized. We'll make the file access parts modularized
eventually so this won't be required.

To get test coverage, install and use [tarpaulin](https://github.com/xd009642/tarpaulin):

```sh
cargo tarpaulin -- --test-threads=1
```

#### Frontend

There is a Playwright test suite. You can run it inside the `bulgur-cloud-frontend` folder with:

```sh
# You need to install browsers first if you haven't used playwright before
yarn playwright install
# Then, you can run the tests. By default it tests with Firefox and Chromium.
yarn test
```
